Proposal/Requirements document--The proposal document shall clearly describe the planned final project’s end product. This document shall be produced using Microsoft Word (it should contain graphics, images, or tables produced using other applications). It must be written using complete English sentences and have been spell- and grammar-checked. The document must unambiguously describe what the proposed system will do (in other words, its requirements). Any performance requirements (e.g., response time to a keypress) must be documented in the proposal document. The document must also include the following topics: Working title of project, purpose of the project, platform (e.g., Windows, Mac, iOS), intended customer/user (that is, who is the program for?), source of the idea for the project, development environment and/or tools to be used, development language(s), limitations or risks anticipated, schedule (built around the course milestones), estimated number of lines of code, documentation, user training, delivery/installation plan. The document should also include anything not mentioned above that will be relevant or helpful when evaluating the proposal. Use the checklist in section 3.4 of the text (checklist begins on p. 42) as you prepare your requirements; you MUST cover all of these items in your document. A typical proposal/requirements document will be 7-10 pages in length.


Test Matrix—Once your proposal/requirements document unambiguously describes EVERYTHING that your project will do it is time to produce a test matrix. This is simply a list (done in Excel or equivalent) of all your system’s requirements. In other words, each row of the spreadsheet will contain one of the system’s requirements. For example, if your system is supposed to allow up to ten simultaneous users then the requirement entry would say, “Ten simultaneous users”. Doing this allows you to easily list all of the system’s requirements so that you’ll remember to design and test each one. The Test Matrix, once approved, will be “frozen” and used during the final demonstration to ensure that each requirement has been adequately fulfilled. Make sure you include ALL of your requirements in this matrix. Remember that the Test Matrix will be used as a grading tool when you demonstrate your project at the end of the term. For each item in the list, you must clearly describe WHAT the feature or function does and also clearly describe HOW it will be tested or verified (will something be measured? will a file be checked? should something happen within a certain period of time? etc)



Preliminary design—The preliminary design document shall build upon the approved proposal document. It shall incorporate any revisions or updates from the proposal document feedback. It shall also describe the preliminary or top-level design of the system under development. The document shall be prepared using Microsoft Word. It shall include flowcharts, hierarchy charts, pseudocode and/or any other graphical or tabular features useful for communicating a software system’s design to a reviewer. Use Part II (Chapters 5-9) of the text as you prepare your design. A typical preliminary design document will be 10+ pages in length and will contain many diagrams and visual depictions.